doc: frequency vehicle journeys RFC (#2868)
CanalTP/navitia: documentation/rfc/frequency_vehicle_journey.md

*start_time* to *end_time* with a step of *headway_secs* for a given `trip_id`. Example:

*frequencies.txt*

| trip_id | start_time | end_time | headway_secs |
| ------- | ---------- | -------- | ------------ |
| 1       | 05:00:00   | 10:00:00 | 600          |

*Generated stop times list*

| arrival_time | departure_time |
| ------------ | -------------- |
| 05:00:00     | 05:00:00       |
| 05:10:00     | 05:10:00       |
| 05:20:00     | 05:20:00       |
| 05:30:00     | 05:30:00       |
| ...          | ...            |
| 10:00:00     | 10:00:00       |

The generated stop times list is used to create a `Frequency Vehicle journeys`. A bool flag (`is_frequency`) is available inside
Vehicle journeys data structure to discriminate it.<br/>
When starting *Kraken*, this data is only loaded inside the *Raptor* cache.
This means that it is not append into *stop times* list contained inside *Vehicle Journeys*.

*Frequency Vehicle journey* is not cunning with *classic stop times*.<br/>
As a reminder, stop times are contained inside [`stop_times.txt`](https://gtfs.org/reference/static/#stop_timestxt).<br/>

> If the *trip_id* is the same, frequency parameters alter the given stop times, describ into *stop_times.txt* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the *trip_id* is the same, frequency parameters alter the given stop times described into *stop_times.txt* file.
```

> The consequence of this meld makes the list become obsolete. The values are no longer valid and become not consistent.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The consequence of this meld makes the list obsolete. The values are no longer valid and become not consistent.<br/>
```

# Frequency Vehicle Journeys

The GTFS specification refers to [`frequencies.txt`](https://gtfs.org/reference/static#frequenciestxt)

> that represents trips wich operate on regular headways.<br/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that represents trips which operate on regular headways.<br/>
```

This RFC describes how kraken works with it.

> In first, `frequencies.txt` file is readed by *fusio2ed*. For each line, a stop time list is created from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At first, `frequencies.txt` file is read by *fusio2ed*. For each line, a stop time list is created from
```

*start_time* to *end_time* with a step of *headway_secs* for a given `trip_id`. Example:

*frequencies.txt*

| trip_id | start_time | end_time | headway_secs |
| ------- | ---------- | -------- | ------------ |
| 1       | 05:00:00   | 10:00:00 | 600          |

*Generated stop times list*

| arrival_time | departure_time |
| ------------ | -------------- |
| 05:00:00     | 05:00:00       |
| 05:10:00     | 05:10:00       |
| 05:20:00     | 05:20:00       |
| 05:30:00     | 05:30:00       |
| ...          | ...            |
| 10:00:00     | 10:00:00       |

The generated stop times list is used to create a `Frequency Vehicle journeys`. A bool flag (`is_frequency`) is available inside

> Vehicle journeys data structure to discriminate it. When starting *Kraken*, this data is loaded inside *Raptor* cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vehicle journeys data structure to discriminate it. When starting *Kraken*, this data is loaded inside the *Raptor* cache.
```

| 1       | 09:00:00     | 09:00:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 09:10:00     | 09:10:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 09:20:00     | 09:20:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 09:30:00     | 09:30:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 09:40:00     | 09:40:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 09:50:00     | 09:50:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |
| 1       | 10:00:00     | 10:00:00       |         |               |               |             |               |                     |

*Generated stop times list*

| arrival_time | departure_time |
| ------------ | -------------- |

> | 05:00:00     | 05:00:00       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 09:00:00     | 09:00:00       |
```
I guess this applies for all the generated stop times.

# Frequency Vehicle Journeys

Frequencies vehicle journeys are a special case of vehicle journeys as they operate multiple time per day
contrary to discrete vehicle journeys that operate only one time per day.

> They are used to define a template of a journey that will start it's mission at a defined interval during a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They are used to define a journey template that will start its mission at a defined interval for a
```

specified time range.

> By example a journey that serve A, B and C, with a new VJ starting from A every five minutes between 06h00 and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By example a journey that serves A, B and C, with a new VJ starting from A every five minutes between 06h00 and
```

21h00.

They are quite an exception as we know very few agencies that model their networks with frequencies, but we use
them to model some kind of on demand transport.

## Input data feed

The GTFS specification refers to [`frequencies.txt`](https://gtfs.org/reference/static#frequenciestxt)

> that represents trips which operate on regular headways. The NTFS is similar on that point so no distinction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that represents trips which operate on regular headways (time between trips). The NTFS is similar on that point so no distinction
```

between them will be made in this documentation.

`frequencies.txt` file is read by *fusio2ed*. For each line, the corresponding vehicle journey is updated with
*start_time*, *end_time* and *headway_secs*.

## navitia model

> On the kraken side frequencies vehicle journeys are implemented as a sub class of `VehicleJourney` named

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the kraken side, frequencies vehicle journeys are implemented as a sub class of `VehicleJourney` named
```

> `FrequencyVehicleJourney` that add the fields *start_time*, *end_time* and *headway_secs* to a regular vehicle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FrequencyVehicleJourney` that adds the fields *start_time*, *end_time* and *headway_secs* to a regular vehicle
```
